.TH CGO 6 "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "W PROGRAMS"
.SH NAME
cgo \- Go board game client for the console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
cgo [-c \fIaddress\fP]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fICGo\fP is a curses version of Go board game clients for the networked
turn based, two player game framework by Eero Tamminen.
.SH STARTING GAME
Before starting a game one has to contact another game client.  This
happens either by setting up a server and accepting a connection or by
connecting yourself to another game server.
.PP
With curses version one needs to use '-c' option to specify the address
into which to connect (e.g.  'creversi -c saturn.outer.space.org').  If
this option isn't used, the game will itself setup a server.
.PP
After connecting another player, you can start the game and begin to
play.  Note that continuing (for clients that support board editing
before play) asks confirmation from the other player before proceeding.
.SH GO (Wei-ch'i)
Go is an ancient game, which is at least as significant in East as Chess
is on West.  There have been mentions about it about 4000 years old
(Chess as it's known now, is about 600 years old).  Go rules are simple,
but the strategy is complex.  That and the size of the Go board make
the game harder to play for computers than Chess.
.SH GAMEPLAY
Game pieces are called 'stones'. They are positioned to the board one
at the time and never moved.
.PP
The aim of Go is to surround as much of territory (board) as possible.
Game is played by positioning stones onto the board in turns.
.PP
Legal positions for a new piece are ones which have freedom(s) or will
capture opponents stone/group(s) if that will not make a ko.
.PP
Captured groups are removed from the board.
.SH GO TERMS
.TP
.B Freedom
Empty position horizontally or vertically beside the stone.
.TP
.B Group
Group of stones of the same color which connect to each other
horizontally or vertically.
.TP
.B Suicide
Placing a stone into a position which has no freedoms or
into the last freedom of a group of the same color.
.TP
.B Capture
Removing the last freedom of opponent's stone/group by
placing own stone into it.
.TP
.B Ko
Repetition of an earlier board situation.
.TP
.B Eye
An empty board position surrounded horizontally and vertically
by stones of one group.
.TP
.B Dead
At end of the game a group that can be captured (has only
one or no eyes (and is on the opponent's territory)) and can't
be saved (not on neutral territory / not enough space for
building eye(s)).
.SH GAME END
The game ends when both players pass their move i.e. they don't see any
way to increase the area they have conquered.
.PP
At the end of the game, dead groups are removed from the board.
.PP
The player with more points wins.  There are slightly differing rules
(Chinese, Japanese, AGA (go organization)) for calculating the points.
Player gets points from the areas that are completely surrounded and
from the prisoners that s/he has taken during the game play.  Normally
the starter's advantage (0.5 points) is accounted in the scoring.  For
more info see rec.games.go newsgroup and it's FAQ.
.PP
The current Go client requires that dead groups are removed by hand
after both players have passed (game ends) and then game is passed again
to calculate the score.  If one tries to remove opponent's group,
opponent has to confirm the action.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR amigod (6),
.IR wgo (6),
.IR cgomoku (6),
.IR cpente (6)
.SH LAST CHANGED
09/2009 by Eero Tamminen
