.TH CPENTE 6 "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "W PROGRAMS"
.SH NAME
cpente/wpente \- Pente/Renju board game clients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
cpente [-c \fIaddress\fP]
wpente
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fICPente\fP is a curses and \fIWPente\fP is a W version of Pente/Renju
board game clients for the networked turn based, two player game
framework by Eero Tamminen.
.SH STARTING GAME
Before starting a game one has to contact another game client.  This
happens either by setting up a server and accepting a connection or by
connecting yourself to another game server.
.PP
With curses versions one needs to use '-c' option to specify the address
into which to connect (e.g.  'creversi -c saturn.outer.space.org').  If
this option isn't used, the game will itself setup a server.  Graphical
user interface version(s) should have a separate configuration dialog
from which you can perform either of these actions.
.PP
After connecting another player, you can start the game and begin to
play.  Note that continuing (for clients that support board editing
before play) asks confirmation from the other player before proceeding.
.SH PENTE/RENJU RULES
Players position a stone at the time to the board. In addition to this,
opponent's stones can also be removed from the board.  This can be
accomplished by positioning one's own stones to both ends of
the opponent's pair (only pairs can be removed).
.PP
The game is won by the person who first gets five of his/her stones
onto a row, either horizontally, vertically or diagonally, or who
removes five pairs from the opponent.
.PP
The game is made more even with the restriction that the starter needs
to place his second stone three positions off the first one.  As the
starter always has to position his stone onto the board center, this is
done by the game itself.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR cgo (6),
.IR cgomoku (6),
.IR pented (6)
.SH LAST CHANGED
09/2009 by Eero Tamminen
