.TH PENTED 6 "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "W PROGRAMS"
.SH NAME
pented \- a Pente/Renju board game server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
pented -l \fIlevel\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pented
is a port of William Schubert's X11 Pente (sometimes called also Renju)
board game engine for the networked turn based, two player game framework
by Eero Tamminen. It offers a Pente game server for the curses and W
Pente clients.  The Pente clients have an additional last move undo
feature, which isn't support by this Pente server.
.SH ARGUMENTS
The only command line argument the server understands, is the playing level:
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIlevel\fP
Level 1 is complete idiot, level 3 is good for quick games and levels 4
and 5 use recursive board evaluation for harder opposition.  The default
3 should be fast enough for even the lowliest of machines (8Mhz ST).
.SH PENTE RULES
Players position a stone at the time.  In addition to more popular
Gomoku game, opponent's stones can also be removed from the board.  This
can be accomplished by positioning one's own stones to both ends of the
opponent's pair (only pairs can be removed).  Game is won by the first
player who gets five-in-a-row (five pieces either in horizontal,
vertical or diagonal row) or removes five pairs from the opponent.
.PP
The game is made more even with the restriction that the starter needs
to place his second stone at least three positions off the first one.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR cpente (6),
.IR amigod (6),
.IR reversid (6)
.SH LAST CHANGED
09/2009 by Eero Tamminen
