.TH WPUZZLE 6 "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "W PROGRAMS"
.SH NAME
wpuzzle \- sliding puzzle for W
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
wpuzzle [-n <size>] [-f <font family>] [-s <font size>]  [<bitmap file>]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I wpuzzle
program displays a puzzle consisting of
.B N
times
.B N
squares, where
.B N
can be set via the
.B \-n
command line option.  One of the squares is blank.  The objective of the game
is to bring the puzzle into the solved state by successively sliding an
occupied square to the location of the blank one.  The puzzle is always
solvable.
.PP
The puzzle can either display an image (if the
.I bitmap file
argument is given; the file must be in GEM \.IMG format) or a sequence of
numbers (in the font defined via the
.B \-f
command line option).
.PP
This program was inspired by the
.I xpuzzle
client program for the X window system, which in turn was inspired by the
original "15-puzzle".  However,
.I wpuzzle
has been rewritten from scratch and contains no code for solving the puzzle
automatically.
.SH OPTIONS
.I wpuzzle
accepts the following options:
.TP
.B \-n \fIsize\fP
Sets the size of the puzzle, i.e., the number of squares along an edge.
.I Size
must be larger than 1.  The default
.I size
is 4.
.TP
.B \-f \fIfont\fP
Sets the font used when no
.I bitmap file
argument is given.  The default
.I font
is "cour10.wfnt".
.SH CONTROL
To slide one of the squares adjacent to the blank into the blank space, just
click on it.  You can also click on any of the squares in the same row or
column as the blank; this will move all the intervening squares in the same
direction.
.PP
To exit the program, press the 'q' key.
.SH AUTHORS
.I Wpuzzle
was written by Jens Kilian.  The code for reading \.IMG files was written
by Torsten Scherer, author of
.IR W (1).
The code for sliding multiple squares was written by Simon Kagedal.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR wserver (1)
.SH BUGS
.I Wpuzzle
cannot solve the puzzle on its own.
