.TH WWYRMS 6 "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "W PROGRAMS"
.SH NAME
wwyrms \- two player Nibbles/Tron/LineCycles game for W
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
wwyrms [options] <level file> [[options] <level file2> ...]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Wyrms
is a two-player game along the lines of Nibbles, XTron, Linecycles and
dozens of other similar games.  The game idea is as old as they come...
;-) You're a worm, you eat, grow and die when crashing head first to a
wall.  Level changes when players have collected all the 'number'
bonuses (1-9) from the level.  There are other bonuses which have
certain effects on the worm.
.PP
There are versions available for TOS, W and curses.
.SH GAME CONTROLS
There are five keys for both the players for moving up, down, left or
right and one for a 'special' action.  \fIPlayer one\fP uses keys
\fBa\fP, \fBz\fP, \fBx\fP, \fBc\fP, \fBs\fP and \fIplayer two\fP keys
\fB8\fP, \fB2\fP, \fB4\fP, \fB6\fP, \fB5\fP. You can quit game with
the 'q' key.
.PP
On TOS you can also use two joysticks.
.SH OPTIONS
Wyrms expects to get at least one argument as the level on which the
wyrms are about to battle. If level was not found, an empty one will be
created. Command line arguments are (# should be replaced with a
number):
.TP
.B -w #
How many wyrms players got.
.TP
.B -s #
Set worm speed (moves per second).
.TP
.B -b #
Length bonus size in blocks.
.TP
.B -l #
How much wyrms' length is increased.
.TP
.B -1 #
Specify which controls (0-3) player one will use.
.TP
.B -2 #
Specify which controls player two will use.
.TP
.B -e
Edit the level files given as arguments.
.TP
.B -h
Shows the help level (help.h).
.PP
For example:
.IP
.nf
wyrms level.1 -s 4 level.1
.fi
.PP
would go through level.1 two times, at the second time with half the
speed (8 moves / sec is the default speed).
.PP
The normal procedure would be to drag all the level files, one wishes
to play, onto the Wyrms program. Another way would be to install Wyrms
for e.g. *.lev files (and to install default parameters if needed) and
to click onto a level file one wants to play.
.SH BONUSES
Bonuses are something that wyrms can get (in practice, run over).  Some
of the bonuses have immediate effect and others need to be activated or
are activated with a crash into something.  You can have only one bonus
of each type at the time. All the activated bonuses use a common timer.
This means that if you'll hit a speed bonus just after slipping on shit,
you'll end up much farther and faster than you though...
.PP
The current bonus tokens are:
.PP
\fBA number\fP. Your main goals. Will increase your length and score.
When the number is 9, you'll get to the next level and the opponent
loses a life.
.PP
\fBA flash\fP.  Pressing the button will make you to move at double
speed for a little while.  This 'turbo' mode was the thing that
originally got me to write this game.
.PP
\fBA leaf\fP.  Eating this makes you able to excrete once, which will
increase your score too).  The one who runs into the crapola, will slide
uncontrollably for a little while.
.PP
\fBExplosives\fP.  Will get you through the next obstacle you'll crash
into (wall, other player etc.).  A head-to-head collision with the other
worm is fatal though.
.PP
\fBA key\fP.  You'll need this to open a door.  Opening a door increases
your score.
.PP
\fBAn arrow\fP.  Player is allowed to go through this item only in the
direction pointed by the arrow.  Then the arrow disappears.
.PP
\fBThe home\fP. You'll pick up another wyrm from your home hole ;-).
.SH AUTHOR
Eero Tamminen

