User notes:

The (untested) 'winstall.sh' script compiles wstart, creates a wstart
directory to $HOME and links there all the programs from the directory
where wserver resides and + itself to user's W configuration files
~/.wconfig and ~/.wrc.  After that you probably want check out the
directory the script created to remove extra program links and move
others to subdirectories so that wstart popups fit into screen.  You
probably want to test out different arguments before saving *your*
favorite ones from the wstart option dialog...

On a low end machines like ST (8Mhz), reading of the directory contents
(WStart (sub)menus) may take a while.  And if directory has lots of
entries, but no subdirectories nor executables in it, you just notice
that popup item high-lite takes very long time!

-------------

Programming notes:

What happens if menu creates buttons to a pane when it's already realized?

Calling realize again for pane won't probably work, as AFAIK pane
doesn't keep a `changed childs' flag (just checks that it has already
been realized).

So...  should I call pane minsize, query_geometry and reshape methods
and then realize the child widgets myself???  It would be nicer if pane
would remove, layout and realize itself again when I call reshape after
children have been added or removed.

Note that pane updating itself automatically every time a child is added
(realizing child + changing size) won't work very well because child
options will on most cases be changed after child has been created /
added and there might be several children added at the time.


Shell widget which also has borders like popup does, should add window
border width to the widget width (and add it to reshape sizes) for
proper widget positioning.


	- Eero

