.TH scan_geometry 3w "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "WLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
scan_geometry(), limit2screen() \- window position parsing functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <Wlib.h>
.sp
\fBvoid scan_geometry(char *\fIgeometry\fB,
short *\fIcol\fB, short *\fIlin\fB, short *\fIxp\fB, short *\fIyp\fB);
.sp
.BI "void limit2screen(WWIN *" win ", short *" xp ", short *" yp ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIscan_geometry()\fP does some simple parsing of a geometry string as
used by several apps.  It analyses a string of the form
.PP
.B "width,height,xpos,ypos"
.PP
and fills in the appropriate pointers. It is possible to omit certain values,
if you should e.g. only want to specify a position by saying:
.PP
.B ",,xpos,ypos"
.PP
Any omitted value will be reported as \fBUNDEF\fP (-32768).  Negative
arguments are allowed and reported with 1 subtracted from them (so that
"-0" is also legal value).
.PP
\fIlimit2screen\fP can be used with \fIscan_geometry\fP to interpret
negative position as window offset from the right/bottom edge of
the screen.  This function also limits window position fully
inside the screen if possible.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
"320,200" -> 320, 200, UNDEF, UNDEF
",,0,1" -> UNDEF, UNDEF, 0, 1
",,0,0" -> UNDEF, UNDEF, 0, 0
",,-0,-0" -> UNDEF, UNDEF, -1, -1 -> UNDEF, UNDEF, 439, 279
",,-0,-1" -> UNDEF, UNDEF, -1, -2 -> UNDEF, UNDEF, 438, 278
.fi
.PP
Last two lines would be for example for a W screen size of 640x480
and window size of 200x200.
.SH BUGS
No chance to do any of the complicated option parsing you might know from X11.
.SH LAST CHANGED
15th. Feb. 1996 by TeSche
