.TH w_allocColor 3w "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "WLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
w_allocColor(), w_freeColor() \- alloc/free a color
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <Wlib.h>
.sp
.BI "short w_allocColor(WWIN *" win ", uchar " red ", uchar " green ", uchar " blue ");"
.sp
.BI "short w_freeColor(WWIN *" win ", short " color ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
\fIw_allocColor\fP()
will reserve and set a color with requested RGB values into the private
color map for the window and returns a handle for it.  W server tries
to find the least used color index for the new color so that palette
would change as little as possible when changing focus to another window
with different palette.
.TP
\fIw_freeColor\fP()
will cancel the reservation for a previously allocated color entry or
shared color.  If you give a negative value, this will free all colors
except the shared ones.  This is mainly of use when you want to free
inherited (or WROOT) colors, but don't know which they are.
.PP
If window doesn't have a colortable of it's own, one is created.  Child
windows will inherit the parent's colortable.
.SH NOTES
You should do all the allocations before window is opened as
\fIw_allocColor\fP() doesn't change the window palette \fBon screen\fP,
just the window color table.  \fIw_changeColor\fP() will change the
palette also on screen.
.PP
You can't free shared colors for the root window as other programs
running in root window may rely on them being fixed to certain values.
The WSERVER struct returned by \fIw_init\fP() tells how many shared
colors there are.
.PP
I'd also recommend that you wouldn't free the first two colors for any
any window as W server uses those for the window borders.  For
allocating window the colors used by a given BITMAP, you can use the
\fIw_allocMap\fP() function.
.SH RETURNS
\fIw_allocColor\fP() returns a handle to the requested color or a
negative value in a case of an error.  \fIw_freeColor\fP() returns 0 on
success.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR w_allocMap (3),
.IR w_changeColor (3),
.IR w_setForegroundColor (3),
.IR w_convertBitmap (3),
.IR w_allocbm (3),
.IR w_init (3)
.SH LAST CHANGED
6/1998 by Eero Tamminen
