.TH w_init 3w "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "WLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
w_init(), w_exit() \- init/exit W server connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <Wlib.h>
.sp
.BI "WSERVER *w_init(" void ");"
.sp
.BI "void w_exit(" void ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B w_init()
establishes a connection to a wserver, and should therefore be done before
any other calls to W server are done.
.PP
If an environment variable
.B WDISPLAY
exists its contents is interpreted as the name of a host to connect to
(for remote wservers).  This implies that Wlib must be able to convert
that name into an IP address and that this IP address must be
accessible.  It also implies that the remote server must have IP support
compiled in (AF_UNIX_ONLY was not defined at compilation time).
.PP
If such a variable does not exist a local connection is attempted.
.PP
This call will also initialize static variables in W library.  Note that
the WROOT window graphics attributes are not valid until you have
changed them!
.PP
.I w_exit()
gracefully ends a connection.  You should call this and quit when you'll
receive EVENT_GADGET event with GADGET_EXIT value.
.SH RETURNS
.I w_init()
either returns a non-zero pointer to a WSERVER struct (if the connection
attempt succeeded) or NULL in case of any error (no wserver running on
requested machine?).
.PP
The WSERVER struct is currently defined as:
.PP
.nf
typedef struct {
  short vmaj, vmin, pl;
  short type;
  short width, height;
  short sharedcolors;
  short planes;
  ushort flags;
  short fsize;
  char *fname;
} WSERVER;
.fi
.PP
where the fields stand for:
.TP
.B vmaj
- major version number of the W server.
.TP
.B vmin
- minor version number.
.TP
.B pl
- patchlevel.
.TP
.B width
- W screen width in pixels.
.TP
.B height
- screen height.
.TP
.B sharedcolors
- the number of shared colors read, set and allocated for W applications
from the wconfig file.  These can be used without further allocations.
.TP
.B planes
- screen bitdepth ('1<<planes' screen colors).
.TP
.B flags
- bitmask of other server capabilities. WSERVER_KEY_MAPPING tells that
server maps special keys and WSERVER_SHM that it implements shared
memory for (put/getblock) packet sending.
.TP
.B fsize
- default font size
.TP
.B fname
- default font family
.PP
.SH BUGS
Connection data is stored statically, so one
.I Wlib
program can't have more than one connection at a time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR Wlib (3)
.SH LAST CHANGED
12th. Feb. 1996 by TeSche
