.TH w_loadfont 3w "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "WLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
w_loadfont(), w_fonttype(), w_unloadfont() \- font manipulation functionality
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <Wlib.h>
.sp
.BI "WFONT *w_loadfont(char *" family ", short " size ", ushort " stylemask ");"
.sp
.BI "char *w_fonttype(char *" filename ", short *" size ", ushort *" styles ");"
.sp
.BI "short w_unloadfont(WFONT *" font ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I w_loadfont()
loads a font (what did you expect it to do?).  If an argument is zero, W
server will use it's default for that instead.  \fIstylemask\fP argument
should be ORed with flags of the desired font styles.
.PP
Fonts are loaded to clients, not windows and currently there's a fairly
small static limit of fonts per client.
.PP
.I w_fonttype()
is a backwards compatibility function.  Earlier fonts were specified by
their filename, this will decompose such to size, style and family name
values.
.PP
.I w_unloadfont()
unloads a font.
.SH RETURNS
.I w_loadfont
returns a non-zero pointer to a WFONT struct or NULL if any error occurred.
This struct contains amongst others the following fields:
.TP
char *\fIfamily\fP:
The font family name for the loaded font.
.TP
short \fIheight\fP;
Full font height in pixels.
.TP
short \fIstyles\fP;
Any combination of \fBF_BOLD\fP, \fBF_ITALIC\fP, \fBF_LIGHT\fP,
\fBF_REVERSE\fP and \fBF_UNDERLINE\fP.
.TP
short \fIflags\fP;
A combination of \fBF_PROP\fP (set if font is proportional) and one of
the font character set flags:  \fBF_LATIN1\fP, \fBF_ASCII\fP,
\fBF_SYMBOL\fP.
.TP
short \fIbaseline\fP;
The offset from font top to baseline along which fonts of differing sizes
should be aligned vertically.
.TP
short \fImaxwidth\fP;
The width of widest character in the font.
.TP
uchar \fIwidths\fP[256];
the width of each of the chars in pixel, only for F_PROP fonts
.PP
Other WFONT structure members should be ignored. They are internal to
Wlib workings.
.PP
.I w_fonttype()
returns the font family name of the given font filename or NULL.
.PP
.I w_unloadfont()
returns 0 if everything is OK or something negative if any error occurred.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR w_setfont (3),
.IR w_settextstyle (3),
.IR w_printstring (3),
.IR w_strlen (3),
.IR wfontdemo (1),
.IR wfonts (1),
.IR wchars (1)
.SH LAST CHANGED
31th. Oct. 1997 by Eero Tamminen
