.TH w_setmode 3w "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "WLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
w_setmode(), w_setlinewidth() \- set drawing mode or line width
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <Wlib.h>
.sp
.BI "short w_setmode(WWIN *" win ", ushort " mode ");"
.sp
.BI "short w_setlinewidth(WWIN *" win ", short " width ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I w_setmode()
sets the drawing mode and
.I w_setlinewidth()
the line width to use for graphics operations in the given window.
.PP
Drawing mode may be any one of
.B M_CLEAR, M_DRAW, M_TRANSP
or
.B M_INVERS.
.PP
For solid drawing functions \fBM_TRANSP\fP works just like \fBM_DRAW\fP.
With dithered (dashed) functions the modes are slightly more complex.
.PP
In \fBM_DRAW\fP mode pixels are either set (= foreground color) or
cleared (= background color) according to the current pattern bitmask.
On other modes the action (clearing, setting or inverting) is performed
only for pixels where there's a corresponding bit set in the pattern
mask.
.PP
Line width is supposed to be a positive, odd (1, 3, 5,,,) value.  Only
line graphics use line width, size of solid (filled) primitives is not
changed.
.SH NOTES
If your program changes either modes or linewidths, it's best to always
explicitly set them before drawing anything.  Wlib won't forward
redundant attribute requests to W server.
.PP
If you're using the ROOT window you
.B have to
set everything explicitly as other programs may also change the window
attributes.
.SH RETURNS
The previous value.
.SH SEE ALSO
all the drawing functions...
.SH LAST CHANGED
12th June 1998 by Eero Tamminen
