.TH w_xpm2bm 3w "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "WLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
w_xpm2bm() \- convert XPM image to DIRECT8 W BITMAP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <Wlib.h>
.sp
.BI "BITMAP *w_xpm2bm(char **" strings ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I w_xpm2bm()
converts XPM like color bitmap description into DIRECT8 format W BITMAP
and returns that.
.PP
The description is an array of strings where first string has white
space separated values for image width, heigth, colors and bytes/pixel.
Following strings contain the color definitions (as many as there are
colors) and rest of the strings the image data.
.PP
The color description lines are composed of a character denoting the
color value in data, white space, a 'c' character, white space, a '#'
character and hexadecimal RGB color value in the 'rrggbb' format.  Data
is composed of the characters defined on color lines.  Data strings have
to be as long as image is wide and in number as many as image is high.
For example:
.RS
.nf
static char *pic[] = {
	"4 3 2 1",
	"  c #000000",
	"# c #ffffff",
	"####",
	"#  #",
	"####"
};
.fi
.RE
.PP
Would be converted to a two-color 4x3 BITMAP.
.SH RETURNS
a non-zero pointer to a BITMAP struct if everything is OK or NULL in case
of an error.
.SH BUGS
Although the format is similar to XPM one, it's not very compatible.
Function is picky about what it accepts, so you should take care not to
add anything extra. Color value input should be more flexible.
.PP
You should be able to convert XPM files to C
include files fairly easily though.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR w_readpbm (3),
.IR w_readimg (3),
.IR w_putblock (3),
.IR w_freebm (3)
.SH LAST CHANGED
26th. Oct. 1997 by Eero Tamminen
