This directory will contain:
	- tileble P8M format images for use as W background images.
	- icons for W applications in monochrome PBM and color P8M[1]
	  formats.
	- IMG format pictures for `wpuzzle' ;-)

With wbm you can use them thus:

	(image has less colors than server)
		$ wbm -r -t image.p8m
	or (otherwise)
		$ wbm -c 1 -r -t image.p8m

to tile the given image onto W background.  With '-s' instead of '-t'
'wbm' scales to image to root window ('-r') size instead of tiling.


[1] Wlib P8M format is like PBM/PGM/PPM Portable Bitmap formats, it just
contains palette and pixel color indeces instead of pixel (1-) bit,
(8-bit) grayscale or (24-bit) truecolor values.


You can check the amount of colors on server with 'wstatus' program and
the number of colors in image with 'wbm -i image'.


Wlib nor 'wbm' do color reduction.  The versatility of unix comes from
many interacting utilities doing only 'one thing', but doing it well.
Same applies here.  If you want to show images using more than 256
colors, you have to quantize them first.  One such program is `ppmquant'
filter from the PBM toolkit.  For example to quantize an existing P8M
image to fewer colors, you could do something like:

	cat 200.p8m | ppm8to24 | ppmquant -fs 14 | ppm24to8 > 14.p8m

This would quantize '200.p8m' with Floyd-Steinberg dithering into 14
colors and save it as '14.p8m' ('ppm8to24' and 'ppm24to8' just convert
between palettized and non-paletized image representations).  If you
want a group of images to share a common colormap, you could use the
'ppmquantall' program.


For JPEG images you could do the quantisizing with the 'djpeg' utility:

(8-bit color server)
	djpeg -colors 254 | ppm24to8 | wbm -r
or (monochrome server)
	djpeg -grayscale | wbm -c 1 -r

And for GIF images you could use 'giftopnm' from PBM toolkit:
	giftopnm image.gif | ppm24to8 | wbm -r


For more information see the `wbm', `ppm24to8', `djpeg', `giftopnm',
`ppmquant' and `ppmquantall' manual pages.


If you want to add color quantization to `wbm,' a good places to start
could be `djpeg' sources.  `ppm2fli' manual page has also a nice intro
on the way it implements quantization.  Then there are also number of
books and papers on the subject...


	- Eero


IMAGE		AUTHOR		TOOLS USED
--------------------------------------------------------------------
blip.pbm	Eero Tamminen	text editor (this is from wyrms game)
wmono.img	Eero Tamminen	MGIF (Atari) image manipulation program
copper.p8m	Eero Tamminen	Turing's Differentials (DDJ article)
heart.p8m	Eero Tamminen	POV raytracer
mrsplodge.p8m	Warwick Allison	POV raytracer

++Eero: Color images have been touched up with Linux Gimp.
