.TH BDF2WFNT 1 "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "W PROGRAMS"
.SH NAME
bdf2wfnt \- convert BDF fonts to W font format
.SH SYNOPSIS
bdf2wfnt [\fIoptions\fP] [\fIBDF file\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIbdf2wfnt\fP is an utility for converting X Window System BDF fonts to
W font format. \fIbdf2wfnt\fP reads a BDF font from file or standard input
and outputs a W font to standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-m
Try to fit characters into as small space as possible by ignoring
the character descent and x-offset in the bounding box. Most likely
some characters won't quite align along the baseline, but you can correct
that with \fIfontedit\fP.  The resulting character height will then be
about the same as BDF font PIXEL_SIZE.
.TP
-v
Output information all the characters converted.
.PP
Any other option shows the program usage.
.SH BDF FONTS
You can acquire BDF fonts from your X server by running first a
\fIxfs\fP font server and then querying it with \fIfstobdf\fP.  You can
check out the names of available fonts with \fPxlsfonts\fP, their looks
with \fIxfontsel\fP and the whole charsets with \fIxfd\fP.
.SH EXAMPLES
First run the X font server:
.br
	xfs &
.PP
and then get one font like this:
.br
	fstobdf -server tcp/localhost:7100 -fn font
.PP
Just replace 'font' with a real X font name
like '-misc-fixed-medium-r-normal--7-70-75-75-c-50-iso8859-1'
or a wildcard abbreviation like '-*-fixed-*-r-*-*-7-*'.
.PP
If you'll pipe \fIfstobdf\fP output through \fIbdf2wfnt\fP and
\fIfontedit\fP (use '-' option for stdin), the font will be saved to
current directory with a suitable name for the W server.  As X font
family name may not be suitable for W, you could set a new one with
\fIfontedit\fP '-n <name>' option.  For example I prefer 'book' instead
of 'New Century Schoolbook', it's so much easier to write...
.SH HISTORY
\fIbdf2wfnt\fP is derived from the \fIbdf2c\fP program by Andrew
Scherpbier.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR fontedit (1),
.IR fstobdf (1),
.IR xfd (1),
.IR xfs (1),
.IR xfontsel (1),
.IR xlsfonts (1)
.SH LAST CHANGED
6th Mar 1998 by Eero Tamminen
