.TH ppm24to8 1 "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "W PROGRAMS"
.SH NAME
ppm24to8, ppm8to24 \- convert images between PPM and W P8M format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
ppm24to8 [PPM file]
.br
ppm8to24 [P8M file]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ppm24to8
and
.I ppm8to24
are filters for converting image data between the standard PPM (Portable
PixMap used by netPBM tools and other) truecolor format and the
.I Wlib
specific P8M variant which uses a palette and which the
.B wbm
utility therefore understands much better.
.PP
The standard PBM/PGM/PPM formats don't have a palette, they store all
the color information in the image data itself.  Their image header
doesn't tell how many colors they actually have, just how many bits are
used to represent them.  As
.I wbm
(being a very simple program) needs to know how many and which colors
the images have to set the window palette, it doesn't understand
truecolor images.  Large P8M format images also take less memory because
their image data is 8-bit and just the palette entries 24-bit.
.PP
For example on how these could be used, see the
.I wbm
manual page.
.SH BUGS
Currently
.I ppm24to8
and
.I ppm8to24
store both the source and destination images in memory instead of doing
the conversion 'on-the-fly'.  For example for a 640x400 image this could
mean 640*400*(3+1) = 1MB of wasted memory.
.PP
If you run out of memory, you could store intermediate results to disk
(see examples in the
.I wbm
manual page) or you could add the 'on-the-fly' operation to these
filters by using modified versions of the
.I Wlib
PBM read/write code and add the results to standard W distribution. :-)
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR wbm (1)
.SH LAST CHANGED
12th June 1998 by Eero Tamminen

