.TH WAUDIO 1 "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "W PROGRAMS"
.SH NAME
waudio \- sound sample editor for W
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
waudio [\fIsample files\fP]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIWaudio\fP is a sample player / editor.  It supports only raw,
signed 8-bit samples, but it can play these on all platforms
which have audio device accepting this sound format.  For linux
and MiNT it can set the sample playing frequency and sync for
the audio device.
.SH THE USER INTERFACE
.PP
The meaning of GUI buttons should be quite obvious.  'Zoom in'
magnifies the selected (painted with mouse) part of sample, 'Zoom out'
cancels the last selection or if there's none, shows the whole sample.
.PP
The 'Samples...'  button presents a dialog that lets you to select,
load, save, create or delete a the sample. Eventually there should
also be means for synthesizing new samples just by setting a few
parameters for sound wave type, base frequencies, harmonies and
envelope. 
.PP
Behind the 'Effects' button you find the means for manipulating
the current sample.  You can copy, cut and paste parts between
different samples, change the sample into a signed one (in case
you loaded an unsigned sample, affects the whole sample),
reverse, fade in or out selected part of sample etc.  'Maximize'
will make too quiet sample (part) to use the whole 8-bit range.
.PP
Each sample has it's own undo buffer.  Only last action can be
un-done, but you can always use save if you want to test more
complex modifications.
.PP
Eventually 'Special...'  button would contain effects like
echo, flanger, reverb, volume setting etc. and the 'Filter...'
button would contain IIR/FIR/FFT operations.
.PP
The 'Fine tune' dialog lets you to fine tune the selection. That
should be handy when searching for loop points. Eventually the
dialog should be a visual one.
.PP
In the 'Options' dialog you can set how the sample is played: once, or
in a loop.  'Selected' options tells either to play only the selected
part of sample or to loop it, depending on whether 'Loop' option is
set.
.SH LAST CHANGED
1/1998 by Eero Tamminen
