.TH WLAUNCH 1 "Version 1, Release 4" "W Window System" "W PROGRAMS"
.SH NAME
wlaunch \- W command launchbar
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wlaunch
[OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wlaunch
is a configurable command launchbar. Every command is represented
by an icon in the launchbar window, which is aligned vertically
or horizontally and normally bound to the border of the screen.
To start a command just click on the icon belonging to it.
.SH CONFIGURATION
For its configuration it first looks for a personal configuration file
in
.I $(HOME)/.wlaunchrc
and if this fails it takes the global configuration file in
.I $(DATADIR)/wlaunchrc.
If neither file is found, program exits with an error.
.PP
This is an example configuration file:
.PP
.nf
# This is a comment
Alignment    BottomRight
Look         3D
Swallow      weyes
wterm.icon   wterm -g 42,666,0815,4711 -f lucidat -s 11
exit.icon    killall wlaunch
.fi
.PP
Comment lines are started with a `#'. A normal entry in a configuration
files consists of a icon file name and a command, both seperated by
whitespaces. Additional options can be given after the command, but
must be on the same line. You can't split lines by a `\\' at the end of
the line.
.PP
If the icon file name is not a absolute file name, the icon is searched
in
.I $(ICONDIR).
This path can be overwritten with the enviroment variable
.I iconpath
or with the option of the same name (see OPTIONS).
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-h, --help"
Display a short overview for the possible options.
.IP "\-i PATH, --iconpath=PATH"
Overwrite default icon search path.  If icons are in current directory,
you could use something like this:
.nf
wlaunch -i $PWD
.fi
.IP "\-v, --version"
Output version number of
.B wlaunch
and exit.
.SH BUGS
The number of commands are currently limited to ten. A line of the
configuration file can't be longer than 255 characters at the moment.
.SH FILES
.nf
.I $(HOME)/.wlaunchrc
.I $(DATADIR)/wlaunchrc
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Paul Schmidt <Jan.P.Schmidt@mni.fh-giessen.de>
